Now if I go back to the code, so
we have our file to get the data,
our file to create the model,
our file to do the training steps and
we are saving it into a public,
not a public folder,
but to me it's like in the public folder.
And I created two, if you just remember in
my model folder, I had one that had a very
good accuracy all of a sudden, and
then I just tweaked some parameters and
saved it into a new folder so I could test
things without ruining my original model.
But now that we have created a custom
machine learning model, well,
we need to use it in the front end and
see if it works well.
So, if we go to our index.js file,
at the moment you should
only have the clear button, event
handler to clear what's on the Canvas.
And what we need here in the front end,
we need to actually import our model kinda
like the same way that we
did yesterday a little bit.
So, first of all, we are just going
to declare a viable code model.
And under we're going
to specify the URL like
the path to our model file,
so we can do model path,
and then that is in the model folder for
me.
If you've made changes and
one of your model is more accurate,
then maybe use the one that
has a better accuracy for now.
And we are going to specifically
use the model.json file.
And then, what we can do is,
we can just have a function
to load the model, so
called, const loadmodel = async function,
we're gonna pass the,
let's say, that path.
We're gonna call it later, but
for now, we're just declaring it.
And we're going to await tf, did I?
No, yeah, okay.
So, here I can call tf because, oops,
tf.loadLayersModel(path) because
here in the index.html, again,
I require sensor just as like a script
tag, but we could also import it.
The way that you decide to do this,
doesn't really matter here,
but here it means that we have,
access to the, tf object.
So, at this point,
it's just a simple function that loads.
You don't have to have that in a function,
but
sometimes if you do more things
related to loading the model,
then I just like to
have smaller functions.
And okay, so we have loaded our model,
and now, what we want to
be able to do is to predict, so if we
look back at our, if I just rerun my app,
and, if you remember here we have a
predict button that for now does nothing.
So, we need to actually add also like
a event handler, onto this side as well.
So, below,
like under you declare your clear ban,
we can have a const predictButton
= document.getElementById(""").
I think in the HTML I called it
check-button, so let's just use that.
Probably would have been
better to call it predict, but
I guess we're checking the images.
Okay, so we have predictButton and
now we need to have the onclick handler.
So predictButton.onclick = ().
Okay, so in our onclick function
here on the predictButton, so
the first thing we're gonna do is
we're gonna get the Canvas here, so
we're just going to return
the Canvas element.
The getCanvas method come
from the utl file, so oops.
So you can just have,
you can just import it here, and
that returns the Canvas element, but
sometimes the way that what needs to be
fed to then to TensorFlow.js
might be just an image element.
Maybe not what's on in
the canvas itself so
what I the way that I've done it,
that's maybe all the ways to do it but
I create a variable,
const drawing = anvas.toData URL.
And then we are going to actually
use that as like the source
attribute on the new image.
So if we look at our index.html file,
this is what I had here.
When I have like an empty image and
with a class that image to check or
something, we're going to get that
image that is currently empty.
I'm gonna call it const newImg =
document.getElementsByClassName("imageToC-
heck").
Terrible name,
I feel free to refactor it afterwards, and
we're gonna get the first one.
Again, I could have used ID,
but class works fine, and
we are going to set the source
to our actual drawing.
So, newImg.src = drawing.
Okay, and now when this image is loaded,
then we're calling a predict on that.
So we have newImg.onload, so when we're
sure that the data that's from the canvas
has been really used as a source for
the image,
then we have an onload function here
to make sure that we're not calling
predict with when the data
on the image is not ready.
So, here we're calling a predict function
that we have not written yet, but
we will, and
autocomplete is not helping me.
And we are going to just
call predict(newImg).
And then because we're predicting,
we can also resetCanvas() after.
So we can draw a new shape and
then predict again and things like that.
So at this point,
we have our event handler, so
when we click on the predict button,
we're getting the canvas element,
we're extracting the data and
appending it to a new image element.
And when that image element Has loaded,
then we're feeding it to a predict
function that we are going to right now.
So here we're declaring
a const predict = async(Img),
and it expects an image as parameter.
And then, just to be sure,
we need to set the width and
height to 200 because that's
the original size of our canvas.
So if we do img.width = 200, and
then the height is going to
be the same img.width =200.
To do do do, okay, and
then what we're gonna do next is we
need to transform that image
before we give it to the model.
So I'm going to declare a variable
called const processedImg = await
tf.browser.fromPixelsAsync(Img,4); which
we're passing the image and
the number of channels.
And here, RGBA, there was four channels.
And this is the same channels that we used
when we created our model here, the input
shape, because the input shape of
the first layer is expecting a 28, 28, 4.
So we did the first thing of transforming
the data into intensive with
channels of four, but
we have not resized yet our image.
So we need to do that now before
we actually feed it to the model.
So, const
resizedImg =
tf.image.resizeNearestNeighbour.
>> Do you or I think.
>> Or you just or?
>> Just be or.
>> Okay just or and
we need to proceed the processed image and
then the shape that we
actually trained our model or
that we created a model with them so
28 and 28.
Okay, so what,
another thing that I had as well,
is we're gonna because we
had an issue before with,
like, some one hot tensors that
were expecting, what was it,
that was expecting data in a certain way?
Actually, we changed it from int to 32,
but when it comes to the image,
I found out what works is to actually
cast the type to a float 32.
So we can declare a variable to,
I don't know how to call it,
const updatedImg = tf.cast(resizedImg,
"float32");.
I'm just trying to make sure that here,
something's going to work as I expect,
but actually we can test that later and
see if that's actually required or
if by default is 432, so
we might not actually need it.
But for now, let's leave it like this, and
then we're gonna let shape here that
we're not giving a value to yet,
but then we are getting our predictions,
so
const predictions = await model.predict.
And here,
because when we trained our model,
we had a model of like four,
a shape of like four different values.
When I expanded the dimensions,
we can see that later.
But we're passing into it,
we're gonna reshape [SOUND]
tf.reshape(updatedImg (shape
=1,28,28, 4)).
So, the 28 and
28 is the size of our image,
the 4 is the number of channels and
the 1 here might not be
needed if we remove the expandDims
function that we called when we,
here when we used expandDims
on our training data.
And that was adding
a dimension to our data.
So here I think it was, if I don't have
that, then it will complain about like,
your input data has only three values and
we're expecting four.
So we can try it like this and
then we might be able to test that.
Well, if we remove 1 and we remove
expandDims, then will that work as well.
But for now,
let's leave it like this, cause at
least under that this way it works.
And we need to call .data
on our predictions as well.
And that's gonna extract
the data that we can really like,
extract our predictions on.
Okay, so it's returning the predictions,
but now we need to extract the label.
So const label
=
predictions.indexOf(Math.max(...predictio-
ns).
And we can then call or give that label as
a parameter to util function that I called
a displayPrediction(label) and we can
import that as well from the utils file.
So here, again, so
we have display prediction,
and don't forget to import
it from the utils file.
And here we could have just
console logged the label, but
I think it's a bit nicer if
you see it on the screen.
And what this function does is really just
looking at our predictions element and
just replacing the text content.
So really not much.
Okay, so at this point, we have not yet
called that load model function.
So what we can do at the bottom,
at the end loadModel(modelpath);.
So, I think this should work,
but let's try it out.
Okay, so if I am in the UI here,
and I have my browser tools open,
just in case, and I draw a triangle.
>> That line needs to be model
equals a weight tf load layer model.
>> Yes, you're right, in my solutions
folder actually needed it differently.
Yes, well yeah, I didn't give,
>> It in your notes as a condition like if
>> Yes, I mean, yeah,
I do have a condition, I'm not sure it's
like, okay, let's do just to make sure but
that shouldn't necessarily be needed but
yes you're right.
I didn't actually give a value
to the model variable, so
then we can't call predict on it.
Okay so hopefully that should now work.
Okay, so if I saved, refreshed,
I'm gonna draw my triangle.
Triangle [LAUGH] okay,
let's try with like a circle.
So I'm clearing it and then if I do, okay,
that's a terrible circle, but square.
Achieve, wait, I know why, I know why.
So I square because originally in
my solutions folder when I did it,
I called it square, so
it's only because in the utils somewhere,
I probably have a square region.
Yes, okay, so in my labels here,
I have square, but it's actually circle.
So technically, it still worked,
so let's refresh.
If I do a circle again.
Circle, okay, so I was actually, okay.
So here, what would be interesting is,
obviously,
I saved the model that had a 95% accuracy,
so it's pretty good.
So if we try maybe like another triangle,
I don't know if that's going to,
well, let's forget that happened.
Okay, [LAUGH] so the thing is, you know,
95% is still not a hundred,
but let's try and.
So the thing is, even with 95% accuracy,
you can see that if I sometimes do
a right, like, draw a shape, it will
actually have another label because we
only again drew 40 shapes for
each of them.
So even if I was using the less accurate
model that I have in my model 1 folder,
it would be even worse.
It's like it would only be accurate 50% of
the time which is not which is not great.
But hopefully, if it works for you,
then we now have a custom model that
we created with our own data, and
we have then used it in the browser, and
we can recognize images that we drew.
But obviously then, if you want to be
maybe a bit cheeky and you're like,
well, what if I draw a candle or
something?
Obviously it doesn't know what a candle
is, so it will just look at, well,
what's the closest thing that I know and
it thinks it's a circle, okay?
And the thing is that then if you want
to create more drinks that you want to
predict, then you do have to give that
data to the model when you train it,
otherwise, it will not know.
It will really just base that out
of the data that we fed it and
the way that we're resizing stuff, then
it just knows a circle and a triangles,
it doesn't really know anything else.
But yes, for like a very small machine
learning model that can predict
the drawings, then it's working,
okay, depending on the accuracy that
you had again maybe you right now when
you're trying it, it's not as accurate.
So you can try to change a few different
parameters in the way that we created
our model.
Again, you can have more images or
add more layers, or
test with the epochs batch size and
things like that.
There's not really a set
rule of how to do it.
I wish I could tell you, hey,
if you just use this, this, this,
then it will be perfect, but
it's not really how it works.